A quick docu on the IRblaster Device:

There is only one Button to enter commands.
There are 8 commands. To arrive at a specific command you need to press the button that many times.
Do that slowly.
The Statusled will blink that many times so you know how many buttonpresses are detected.
Once you reached your wanted Menue/Command, press any key on your remote control to enter that command.
If you press too many times, it will leave the commandentry mode, unless in debug mode.

Commands description:

general concept:
A remotecontrol sends a code S1 to the Device. Device will try to find that code S1 in its codetable.
if not found, do nothing.
if found, transmit replacement code(s) (up to 3) D1(,D2,D3)

So, A remotecontrol code S1 maybe translated into 1,2 or 3 other ir codes D1,D2 or D3
Menuestatus is indicated by StatusLed blinks.

Menue:
Blink 1 = learn a single replacement code:  S1 -> D1  (update possible)
Blink 2 = learn a 2 replacement codes, like power for 2 devices: S1 ->D1 ->D2     (only append possible else error)
Blink 3 = learn a 3 replacement codes, like power for 3 devices: S1 ->D1 ->D2->D3 (only append possible else error)
Blink 4 = erase flashtable, press 2 different IRcodes to activate. (all codes are erased!!)
-- set Debug LED toggle modes: (Disable by PowerOff)
Blink 5 = LED is toggled each time a valid code was reveied. to test if IR is 38khz and receivable.
Blink 6 = same as 5, but toggles LED only on code compare match. find same code on different controls, test code recognize.		  
Blink 7 = toggle LED on 32bit code received. to look for modern codes like NEC!
Blink 8 = toggle LED on 16bit code received. 

Menue selection:
The LED will blink the number of times the "learnbutton" was pressed ie. shows menue item.
to enter that menue item, press any key on the remote control
-
Code entering:
- blink 1 time = prompt to press the remotecontrol code S
- blink 2 time = prompt to press the replacementcode D1
if menue 2 
- blink 3 time = prompt to press the replacementcode D2
if menue 3
- blink 4 time = prompt to press the replacementcode D3

on error (flash table full or entered S-code in D1 or D2 or D3)
	- blink 10 times  return error

- blink 1  = OK
return success

If you pressed the button more than 8 times just press any remote key to exit.
DONT press remote keys too fast, this may corrupt the data entry.
